e
e e
now
full for
please be
seated the setting is
open the cours meet this morning to hear
the single round of oral argument of the
state of Israel on the request submitted
by the Republic of South Africa on May
10 2024 for the indication of additional
provisional measures and the
modification of previous provisional
measures in the case concerning
application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide in the Gaza Strip South
Africa versus Israel I now give the
floor to the co-agent of Israel Mr gilam
Noam you have the floor
Sir Mr President members of the Court it
is an honor to appear before you once
again on behalf of the state of
Israel this case even by its very name
the application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide in the Gaza strep suggests
an inversion of
reality it has given rise to South
Africa's egregious and repeated efforts
to bring Israel before this court
through the obscene exploitation of the
most sacred
convention South Africa presents the
court yet again for the first time
within the scope of less than 5 months
with a picture that is completely
divorced from the facts and
circumstances Israel is engaged in a
difficult and tragic armed
conflict South Africa ignores this
factual context which is essential in
order to comprehend the
situation and also ignores the
applicable legal framework of
international humanitarian law
it makes a mockery of theous charge of
genocide as Israel has previously stated
before this court when dealing with the
law facts
matter truth should
matter words must retain their
meaning calling something a genocide
again and again does not make it
genocide
repeating a lie does not make it
true here in the peace Palace it cannot
be
otherwise Mr
President Israel received notification
of this hearing on
Monday less than 4 days
ago while it was observing a
particularly painful National
Remembrance
Day this notification came as a great
surprise because the court had already
invited Israel to submit its
observations on South Africa's request
in writing by Wednesday of this
week Israel Was preparing its written
observations when the court suddenly
announced that it would hold an oral
hearing
instead in seeking to accommodate the
Court's
decision Israel immediately reached out
to its legal team so as to guarantee
that it could properly properly be
represented by
Council that proved
impossible as Israel's Le lead council
is sheep this week and other Council
were likewise unable to come to the ha
on such short
notice for this reason Israel wrote to
the court in good faith asking that the
hearing be rescheduled to next week it
explained that the dates fixed dates
fixed by the court significantly
significantly impacted Israel's ability
to be sufficiently well represented and
the fundamental principle of equality of
arms Israel's request was
rejected the date of this hearing
remained that which South Africa had
expressly
requested the regrettable result is that
Israel is not represented today by its
chosen team of council and Advocates the
equality of the parties and the
administration of justice have been
severely
undermined out of respect for this court
the same respect that Israel has shown
through all these past several months
Israel's co-agents have nonetheless
traveled to appear at this
hearing South Africa's complaint
yesterday that Israel has failed to
respond to its current request is
therefore wholly unfounded
Israel expects that the court will
appreciate the predicament that Israel
has been placed
in this is all the more so given that
South Africa yesterday quite radically
changed the terms of its requested
provisional measures which Israel has
been given less than 24 hours to respond
to Mr President members of the
Court bearing all that in mind allow me
to recall four basic facts that South
Africa continues to
conceal it is highly regrettable to say
the least that these basic facts must
once again be stated in this Great
Hall
first Israel is engaged in a war it did
not want and did not
start it is under attack and fighting to
defend itself and its citizens
since the hor horrific Onslaught that
began on 7 October
2023 which saw thousands of Israeli
citizens brutally slaughtered mutilated
raped and
injured and
254 women men and children taking
hostage into Gaza Hamas and other
terrorist organization in Gaza continue
to attack Israel including by
indiscriminate rocket fire into Israeli
cities and
towns they have vowed to try and repeat
the atrocities of 7 October many times
over since the beginning of the
hostilities more than 10,000 Rockets
have been fired from the Gaza Strip
towards Israel with the aim of killing
as many Israelis as
possible the last two weeks alone
so
278 rockets
launched damage of an unprecedented
scale has been caused to Israeli
civilian homes and
infrastructure with entire communities
destroyed approximately
60,000 residents of towns in southern
Israel remain displac from their homes 7
months on it may be years before they
are able to return to their homes and
rebuild their
communities Sirens continue to go off
across the country as Rockets missiles
and drones are launched against Israel
from several
fronts Rafa in particular is a focal
point for ongoing terrorist
activity it is a stronghold for hamas's
operatives with several battalions
belonging to the Rafa Brigade entrenched
in the
area also present in Rafa is an
intricate underground tunnel
infrastructure that runs underneath the
city and provides provides ample space
for operatives command and control rooms
and military
equipment nearly 700 tunnel shafts have
been identified in Rafa from reach
approximately 50 tunnels cross into to
Egypt these tunnels are used by Hamas to
supply itself with weapons and
ammunition it could potentially be used
to smuggle out of Gaza hostages or Hamas
senior
operatives since the start of the
present
hostilities more than 1,400 Rockets were
fired from Rafa
alone including more than 120 in the
last 2
weeks approximately 600 launch sites
were identified in the Rafa
area many of which hidden within or in
close proximity to civilian
infrastructure information regarding
rocket launches from Rafa during the
current conflict can be found in tab one
of your judges
folder is Israeli
hostages are also being held in RAF by
their
ctors in fact Israeli forces managed to
rescue two Israeli hostages from Rafa on
11 February
2024 I recall that South Africa filed a
request with this court the next day for
provisional measures that would prevent
Israel from taking military action in
Rafa and this request was right
rightfully
denied South Africa purports to describe
Rafa as a last refuge for civilians in
Gaza while many civilians have indeed
evacuated to Rafa over the past few
months the fact remains that the city of
Rafa also serves as a military
stronghold for
Hamas which continues to pose a
significant ific threat to the state of
Israel and its
citizens in tab two of your folders you
can find a map showing locations of
Rocket sites tunnel shafts and command
and control sites embedded in civili in
the civilian population in
Rafa South Africa warns this court that
I quote if Rafa
Falls so too does Gaza
once again however the reality is
exactly the
opposite only by bringing down hamas's
military stronghold in Rafa will
Palestinians be liberated from the
clench grip of a murderers terrorist
regime and the road to peace and
prosperity May finally be
paved the reality is that any state put
in Israel's difficult position would do
the
same the right of defense against the
brutality of the Hamas terrorist
organization cannot be
oub it is an inherent right afforded to
Israel as it is to any
state Israel is committed as it must be
to realizing this right in accordance
with the
law which is why it has worked
diligently to enable the protection of
civilian
even as Hamas seeks deliberately to
Ender endanger
them to deny Israel this basic right
would be to suggest shockingly that the
most fundamental right afforded to all
states should be withheld from
one this is an unthinkable outcome that
would tell Israeli citizens and the
hostages that they are not deserving of
protection of life itself
and tells the Israeli state that it will
be treated unequally in a manner that is
at odds with the most basic of legal
principles Israel is acutely aware of
the large number of civilians that are
concentrated in
RAF it is also acutely aware of hamas's
efforts to use these civilians as a
shield that is why its battalions are
present there
that is why its Rockets are there that
is why hostages are
there we do not wish harm to these
civilians as Hamas
does that is precisely why Israel is
taking steps to try and contend with the
massive complexity that such a situation
presents that is why there has not been
a large scale assault on RAF but rather
specific limited and localized
operations prefaced with evacuation
efforts and support for humanitarian
activities does Israel face complex
operational challenges in
Gaza
certainly but can we imagine a situation
where a state does not take military
action to protect its civilians when
they are Under
Fire and can we imagine a count of law a
court of law sorry telling a state that
the law prevents it from defending
itself from
Attack this is simply
unattainable when alas stood at this
podium in
January Israeli hostages had been in
captivity for almost 100 days at the
time this seemed
inconceivable yet the hostages have now
been in captivity for over 7even
months more than 130 children women and
men including the sick and
elderly have now been hand in Gaza for
days Inc
communic and in inhumane
conditions among them is 23 years
yearold her Goldberg
polling HH was abducted from the Nova
music festival in raim severely
injured on 25th April
2024 Hamas released a video of
hsh in it he is seen with an amputated
arm which was blown off by Hamas
terrorist he is
alive he needs medical
treatment at least 36 of those who were
taken hostage on October 7 have been
confirmed dead and their bodies are
still held in the Gaza strep among them
are Yosi
sharabi a 53-year-old father of three
and it Veri who is 38y
old both of them were kidnapped from
their homes in
bayy on 14 January
2024 in the display of pure and
unadulterated
cruelty Hamas made public a video of the
two and of a third hostage 26 year
year-old Noah aramani who was also
kidnapped from the music festival
promising to announce on the following
day which of the three are
alive shortly thereafter it was
confirmed that Yosi and D Tai had both
been killed after 102 days in brutal
captivity
additional information regarding
hostages still held by Hamas can be
found at top three of your judges
folder it remains unclear how many more
innocent victims have been killed at the
hands of
Kamas simply put this situation is
unconscionable it is unbearable for the
parents watch videos of their young
daughters bruised and bleeding paraded
before cheering crowds in
Gaza and we have heard Hing accounts
told by Survivor released from Gaza of
the torture and sexual violence they
suffered at the hand of their
captors and it is intolerable for a
nation obligated to defend its citizens
and wishing for their
return this court has called for the
immediate release of the hostages but to
no
avail it is Israel's right and
obligation to defend them and all its
citizens from the evil that was
Unleashed on them on 7th October and
since then any state would do the
same Mr President members of the court I
next turn to the second fact that must
be kept in
mind Hamas with whom Israel is engaging
in this armed conflict is not a party to
these proceedings
Israel is engaged in an intense armed
conflict with a wrath jihadist terrorist
organization one that is not only
targeting Israeli civilians but is also
using Palestinian civilians to Shield
itself in utter disregard for their
lives or for the
law by exploiting the genocide
convention South
Africa is suggesting a convol a convol
Ed reading of international law under
which any armed conflict could be
brought before the court it seeks once
again to obtain provisional measures
that would bind only Israel and not its
adversary the Absurd result would be
that Israel would be denied its inherent
right to defend
itself Hamas for its part would remain
free to continue committing its horrific
crimes the purp purpose of the genocide
convention is not to have the court
supervise the conduct of armed
hostilities by parties to the conflict
by the assertion of the
genocide rather the convention and
subsequently this court
jurisdiction is limited to the Grave
crime of
genocide I am compelled to restate once
again that there is a tragic war going
on but there is no
genocide yet
particularly at the provisional measure
stage when the evidentiary threshold is
such that the applicant is not required
to provide proof of its allegations or
the existence of specific intent to
commit genocide there is a danger that
the court will find itself engaged in
the
micromanagement of operational aspects
of an armed
conflict this is what South Africa has
been asking the court to
do judge ad do Barack warned precisely
of this danger when the court handed out
it its decision on South Africa's third
request for provisional measures You
observe that I
quote the court has accepted South
Africa's invitation to become the
micromanager of an armed conflict and
use the genocide Convention as an excuse
to rule on the basis of international
humanitarian
law managing an armed conflict under the
genocide convention is a dangerous
Endeavor especially when one of the
belligerant is not a party to the
convention this remains true when
considering South Africa's fourth
request Mr President members of the
Court this brings me to third basic fact
that must not be
ignored South Africa prepars to come
before you yet again as a guardian of
humanity
in fact it has a clear ulterior motive
when it asks you to order Israel to stay
away from Rafa and to withdraw all its
troops from
Gaza it does so in order to obtain
military Advantage for its Ally
Hamas which it does not wish to see
defeated it is this reason that South
Africa continues to abuse the genocide
convention this court
and the procedure of provisional measure
for provisional
measures just 6 days ago on 11 May
2024 only a day after it submitted the
present request for additional
provisional
measures South Africa hosted a Hamas
delegation in
Johannesburg South Africa's foreign
minister herself met with Hamas
Representatives
they did not use the meeting to urge
Hamas to release the
hostages to stop targeting Israeli
civilians to seize using human
Shields to seize operating from within
and nearby hospitals un facilities and
other protected
sites they apparently met to discuss
their continued campaign against Israel
in the
court and on the ground
Mr President members of the
Court Safa is not interested in the
truth nor is it interested in law or
Justice once again it is exploited in
the court and its authority to issue
provisional
measures it is in no rush to reach the
merits of this case when it will have to
substantiate its Bas baseless claims
with evidence that simply does not exist
Israel for its part has shown nothing
but respect for the judicial process and
for the law more
generally as the court will recall on
28th April
2024 Israel provided the court with a
lengthy report detailing inalia the
numerous steps that Israel actively and
effectively taken to address the
humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip
consistent with the court previous
orders rather than first responding to
Israel's
report South Africa rushed to submit yet
another request for provisional measures
its fourth for fear that hamas's last
significant stronghold will
fall Hamas itself has repeatedly
rejected every offered for a
ceasefire on 25th April
2024 8 18 states called upon Hamas to
release immediately the hostages still
being held in Gaza they said and I quote
we emphasize that the deal on the table
to release the
hostages would bring an immediate and
prolonged ceasefire in Gaza that would
facilitate a surge of additional
necessary humanitarian assistant
assistance to be delivered throughout
Gaza and lead to the credible end of
hostilities 4 days ago on 13 May
2024 the United States national security
adviser noted in the same vein that and
I quote there could be a ceasefire
tomorrow if Hamas simply released women
wounded and early
hostages Israel put a forward leaning
proposal on the table
the world should be calling on Hamas to
come back to the table and accept a
deal South Africa spoke yesterday about
rebuilding a viable Palestinian
society yet South Africa's actions speak
louder than it its words by its actions
it is clear that South Africa wishes to
see Hamas remain in control of the
Palestinians in Gaza and to Destin them
to
misery it is Israel that wishes to see a
different future to
Gaza one in which Palestinians and
Israelis can both live in
peace Hamas the genocidal terrorist
organization will stop at nothing to
prevent
that Mr President members of the Court
this brings me to the fourth fact that
the court must not lose sight of
as is the case with all armed conflicts
incidents involving alleged violations
of the rules regulating the conduct of
hostilities may
occur this reality is not unique to
Israel no state is
infallible Israel's independent and
robust legal
system addresses all allegations of
misconduct including in the current
hostilities they must not be thrown
before this court in the form of facts
and conclusion and as evidence of
something they are
not armed conflict is not a synonym for
genocide South Africa mentions some
individual incidents reported in the
media and attempts to present them as
evidence of unlawful
policies yet exceptional incidents are
just that
exceptional they do not evidence a
policy of illegal Behavior let alone a
policy of
genocide and then also cannot be cided
as fact until a proper examination is
carried out not every media report
reflects facts or incidents correctly or
in their full
context Israel has been and remains
committed to acting in accordance with
its International legal
obligations including those under
International humanitarian law and the
genocide
convention Israel has in place the
necessary mechanisms to examine and
investigate allegations of
wrongdoing by its military forces and to
ensure accountability for violations of
the law information about these
mechanisms and their activity since the
commencement of hostilities has been
provided by Israel in both the report of
26 February 2024 and a report of 28
April
2024 it Bears repeating before the court
today that since the beginning of the
hostilities 55 criminal investigations
has have been opened by the military
Advocate General with respect to
incidents that raise Prima fesi
Reasonable Suspicion of criminal
misconduct in addition
the fact finding an assessment mechanism
a permanent independent and professional
mechanism in charge of examining
exceptional incidents is in the process
of addressing hundreds of incidents from
the current
conflict with respect to various public
statements as I stressed in January
before the court the Israeli legal
system knows how to draw a line between
statements that are troubling and even
obscene but still fall within the right
of freedom of speech in a Democratic
Society and those statements which go
beyond this that
right Israel's reports have also
outlined the steps taken by Israel's law
enforcement agencies to examine dozens
of statements made in the context of the
current hostilities in order to
assertain whether legal steps are
warranted it was recently decided that
some cases justifi the promotion of
criminal
proceedings at the same time since the
outset of these proceedings South Africa
has consistently cheric statements or
taking others out of context in an
attempt to attribute to Israel the
intent to commit genocide taking
advantage of the law evidentiary
Threshold at the provisional measure
stage it does so in the present request
as well attributing to Israel Alle
genocidal aims and acts based on
statements clearly calling for victory
over Hamas and for its
destruction Israel has made repeatedly
clear that the policy and instructions
for conducting the hostilities stem from
the decisions of the ministerial
committee on National Security Affairs
and the war cabinet and not from various
social media accounts or
interviews as Miss Kaplan turjman will
explain
the decision of the Israeli cabinet and
their implementation on the ground leave
no doubt that South Africa's allegations
regarding genocide are completely and
utterly
baseless Israel's law enforcement
authorities also act to counter Israeli
protest
protesters who block the transfers
transfer of aid from Israel to
Gaza the Israeli police secures
coordinated convoys during their passage
in
Israel with respect to the incident of
May 13 during which protesters caused
damage to Aid Drugs the Israeli police
is prioritizing the the investigation
which was assigned to a special
Investigation Unit it has already
resulted in the investigation of several
suspects and
Witnesses the authorities are acting in
this regard and will continue to act in
order to investigate and prosecute if
appropriate and to ensure the continued
effective and efficient transfer of
humanitarian
Aid as part of a Lessons Learned process
an improved mechanism was adopted by the
police and the IDF to ensure the safety
of the
convoys
finally even during hostilities the door
of Israel's high court of justice a
central pillar of Israel's robust and
inde dependent legal system are open to
those who seek to challenge the actions
of Israel's
government this includes
non-governmental organizations Nos and
individuals who are not Israeli citizens
and residents if they are potentially
affected by such
actions in fact Israel's high court of
justice is currently reviewing a
petition submitted by a number of
Israeli
NGS concerning the humanitarian
situation in the Gaza
Strip the court is reviewing the
compliance of the Israeli government's
policy with both International
humanitarian law and Israeli
law in its response to the petition the
state has submitted extensive briefs and
has participated in two public oral
hearings before a senior three judge
panel it has presented in detail the
effort it is undertaking to alleviate
the humanitarian situation
an additional statement will be
submitted to the court within the next
few days concerning inter Alia the
operation in
RAF as I stated before this court in
January
2024 even when the canons were in Gaza
the law is not
silent Israel's legal system and its
domestic mechanisms are a testament to
this
Mr
President members of the
court let me now say something about the
weakness of South Africa's
allegations in its Council bered Israel
yesterday for casting as Persians at
what it called credible information
provided by South
Africa but the sad truth is that South
Africa sites hateful social media
accounts and unsubstantiated news
reports in support of its
claims surely this cannot
pass an additional flow in this regard
is South Africa's heavy Reliance on
documents prepared by Third parties or
under the opes of the United Nations
when these cannot be said to constitute
sufficient evidence of a reliable
quality indeed the court has itself had
occasion to observe that you reports may
only be of such quality I quote to the
extent that they are of probative value
and are corroborated if necessary by
other credible
sources the court moreover stated that
and I quote the precise evidentiary
value accorded to any report including
those produced by United Nations
entities also depends on the methodology
and amount of research underlying it its
preparation it is important to cl to
clarify Israel does not underestimate
the reports of the UN and other
sources we study them draw conclusions
and lessons in the appropriate
cases
however statements from such reports
should not be accepted automatically
especially in a complex combat reality
these words of caution are of particular
significance in the present case as the
materials cited by South Africa have
been prepared without access to relevant
and necessary
information including that held by
Israel and often without any attempt to
access such
information they frequently rely on
Hamas sources or on those subject to
Hamas intimidation
one striking example which gives serious
cause for
alarm is that even un Ocha which has so
far pared pared information generated by
Hamas run agencies in Gaza regarding
fatalities has recently started to
accept that the information coming out
of Gaza is
flowed it highlighted that more than
10,000s of the fac fatalities declared
by Hamas are unnamed and that's
unverifiable concurrently it revised
dramatically the number of verifiable
fatalities of women and children
fatalities to approximately half than
was previously
presented and stop parting the baseless
claim that 70% of the casualties are
women and
children it turns out that the data that
the UN were using and that South Africa
was has presented to this code as
true was
wrong while the number of overall
fatalities has not
changed the breakdown is
crucial Hamas has been concealing the
number of militants in its unverified
lists of Palestinian
casualties hamas's lists also contains
contain persons who died from reasons
unrelated to IDF actions such as fire of
terrorist
organizations and show many
irregularities in reported age gender
and ID
numbers in this way an armed conflict
can easily be portrayed as
genocide as we have stated every
civilian death is a tragedy
moreover overall fatality counts during
a war are not in and of themselves
evidence of unlawful conduct under
international
law once
again the facts
matter South Africa has not missed an
opportunity to make outlandish
accusations against
Israel and its fourth request for
provisional measures is replete with
blat and distortion and
misrepresentations we heard plenty s
outrageous distortions and
misrepresentations yesterday as
well perhaps most repugnant is South
Africa's suggestion that Israel has
created zones of
extermination evoking
terminology reminscent of the systematic
extermination of European Jews during
the
Holocaust similarly outrageous is South
Africa's cynical attempt to equate
Israel's action with the genocidal
practices at
SBR how low South Africa has
stood these allegations level that
israels at Israel are patently
untrue and emphatically
denied like many of the claims in South
Africa's application and requests they
lack any basis in in fact or
law South Africa claims that Israel has
closed critical border crossings into
Gaza when this is blatantly
untrue it has claimed that Israel has
failed to facilitate the provision of
fuel for sustaining humanitarian
operations and
Facilities this is also
untrue Miss kapan turjan will further
elaborate on these points in a moment as
as well as on the continuous efforts
that Israel has been making to alleviate
the humanitarian situation in the Gaza
Strip as Council for Israel noted before
the court during the oral hearing on 12
January
2024 a State intent on committing
genocide would not undertake the
operational and the humanitarian efforts
that Israel has taken and is taken to
mitigate civilian harm
it would would not have delayed a ground
maneuver for weeks urging civilians to
seek safer space and in doing so
sacrifice operational
Advantage it would not invest massive
resources in facilitating humanitarian
Aid if anybody should be told that
enough is enough it is truly South
Africa and not
Israel at what point do we say enough to
to South Africa's repeated attempts to
exploit the provisional measure
procedure of this court in such a vile
and cynical
manner this war like all wars is tragic
and terrible for Israelis and
Palestinians and it has exacted a
terrible human
price but it is not
genocide I can only recall once again
that Israel has made it clear that if
the hostage were released and Hamas were
to lay down its arms the hostilities
would cease and has been engaged
intensively in negotiations to that
effect Mr
President members of the
Court South Africa asked this court to
order Israel and I quote seize its
military operations in the Gaza
Strip South Africa has asked the court
to order the cessation of military
operations by Israel in its previous
request the court has not done
so the court is well aware that to do so
would mean that 132
hostages would remain to language in
hamas's tunnel tunnels
forsaken it would mean that Hamas would
be left
unhindered and free to continue its
attacks against Israeli territory and
Israeli civilians which it has a stated
intention to
do it would turn the genocide convention
into a sword rather than a
shield and would strip Israel of its
rights under international law in
Israeli civilians of its
protection such a situation is both
legally and morally
unattainable for all of the reasons
given in response to South Africa's
earlier requests for similar provisional
measures the court rightfully rejected
South Africa's previous request and it
would be wholly inappropriate to Grant a
provisional measures measure in such
terms the second of the provisional
measures requested by South Africa
repeats earlier request it has made
either sufficiently covered by the
various provisional measures ordered by
the court or rejected in previous rounds
South Africa has not given sufficient
reason why the court should now deviate
from or essentially duplicate its
earlier
decisions the third provisional measure
requested by South Africa would require
that Israel submit an open report to the
court on all measures taken to give
effect to to these and previous
provision provisional
measures as I have said Israel has
engaged fully and sincerely in this
proceedings despite the outrageous and
labeless claims that have been leveled
against it it has submitted to the court
two detailed reports it has been
forthcoming about the efforts it is
undertaking as well as the challenges it
is dealing with to alleviate the
humanitarian situation in
Gaza it has made clear time and again
its unwavering commitment to its
obligations under international law
it has done
this while the fighting continues and
the citizens are still under
attack South Africa has responded with a
barrage of requests it has clearly
adopted a strategy of dragging Israel to
court endlessly regardless of any legal
undertakings by
Israel in these
circumstances ordering isra to submit
another report is
unwarranted Mr President that concludes
my statement I ask that you now invite
Miss Kaplan turjan to the
podium um I thank the co-agent of
Israel and ask um
mrar take the
floor you have the
M Mr President members of the Court it
is an honor to appear before you on
behalf of the state of
Israel as you have just heard Israel is
still under
attack we are still counting more and
more of our dead and attending 2,000
more who are
wounded no less than 130
to Children women and men are still H
hostage in unimaginable conditions by
Hamas and other Palestinians militants
in
Gaza tens of thousands of Israeli
citizens are internally
displaced most of them have not seen
their homes in over s
months many have no homes to return
to the very grave effect of the horrific
Massacre of 7 October continue to Ripple
through our people and communities who
must not be
forgotten they too are worthy of
international laws
protection Mr
President members of the court I draw
particular attention to the women still
held Old Stage in
Gaza Miss Amit sna who was held captive
in Gaza by Kamas for 55
days testified recently that she was
physically abused beaten up and chained
to a
bed threatened at gunpoint and forced to
perform sexual acts on her
capture Kamas refuses to release these
women and all the other oages it holds
it presently refuses to alleviate the
humanitarian suffering that this war has
broke to all concerned on both
sides it has turned down numerous
proposals for a suire and it continues
to favor death and destruction as a
strategy we heard nothing about that
yesterday
in fact while South Africa South Africa
made many
outrageous false statements
yesterday perhaps most striking was what
it did not
say we have hardly heard the word
Hamas even though it is Hamas that has
brought about all the suffering and pain
that we are
witnessing the suffering of Israelis and
Palestinians
alike instead we sat here and listened
to vinist accusations to language that
is so hateful so out of touch with
reality that it was difficult to believe
we are in a court of
law Mr
President members of the
Court there is no doubt that this war is
tragic and has caused Great suffer uing
on both
sides again this is Hamas is
doing South Africa provides an account
that is not only in
incredible and Incredibly partial it is
also
distorted but to apply the law properly
to impart Justice surely the facts must
matter these facts can can not but show
that Israel is seeking consistently to
abide by the law in the excruciating
circumstances of warfare that Hamas has
deliberately
created the blatant misrepresentation we
heard yesterday cannot alter
that for a start South Africa claims
that Israel has shut down the two main
land Crossing through which Aid enters
into Gaza this being the Rafa and Kim
Shalom
crosses and that Israel has cut Gaza off
from all humanitarian medical and other
supplies this is patently
untr the truth is that Israel allows and
facilitates as it has been for months
the provision of more and more
humanitarian Aid to the civilian
population throughout the Gaza
Strip it does so through a number of
Crossings on a daily
basis I refer the court to the map that
is now on the screen before you and also
at tab five of your
folders contrary to South Africa's claim
the km Shalom Crossing have been in
continuous operation since December
2023 with one recent exception between
the 5th and 8th of May when it was
closed after Kamas fired at Kim
Shalom even though Kamas fire continued
on 8 10 11 12th May and several times
even yesterday the crossing remained
open allowing allowing more and more Aid
to flow in
this Crossing has been the central entry
point for Ed for
months I know that South Africa has not
only wrongly alleged that the km Shalom
Crossing has been shut down it also
requested that Israel relinquish control
over it I hardly need to say much about
this request given that Kum Shalom is
situated on Sovereign Israeli territory
as for the raer
crossing to say that Israel closed this
Crossing is inaccurate at best its
operation was disrupted on May 6 and
since then Israel has taken active
measures and has been in intensive
discussions with Egypt supported by
other International actors in an effort
to resume the flow of
Aid in the meantime and in keeping with
its consistent efforts Israel has taken
immediate measures to ensure that
alternative paths are available for the
continued increase in its provision of
humanitarian assistance to the Gaza
Strip in this context the prime minister
of Israel convened two high level
meetings to ensure Contin continued
adequate response to the humanitarian
situation in the Gaza Strip
the Prime Minister instructed the
relevant authorities in Israel to take
immediate interim steps to enable
increased flow of Aid to Gaza strep
through other routs and
sources South Africa neglected to
mention yesterday that the total amount
of Aid entering Gaza in the last few
days is now once again increasing s
significantly indeed
on 12 May a new land Crossing was open
at eras
West it joins yet another new land
Crossing fully
operationalized on May 1st at AR East
which together allow for the entry into
Gaza of
additional 200 trucks per day after
their inspection
elsewhere an additional land route
bringing Aid into Gaza since March 2024
which again is fully
operational is gate
96 this land route brings a directly
into Northern Gaza thus reducing the
risk of floting of Aid convoys that
otherwise make their way to the area
from the southern part of the
strip for this purpose Israel allows
Palestinian Palestinian truck drivers
from Gaza to enter Israel territory
following Security checks in order to
collect and upload humanitarian
supplies Israel has done great deal to
expand the capacity of land Crossings
including by extending the working hours
there it has also expanded
infrastructure and Roads supporting the
operations of the
crossing the Israeli government
allocated a approximately 52 million
United States dollar to the
implementation of such
efforts we heard nothing about all of
that
yesterday aial Roots remain in operation
so as to allow for direct parachuting of
Aid to
Gaza such operations are undertaken
almost daily involving a significant
number of
States many thousands of Aid packages
were provided in this way by dozens of
operations in recent
weeks the temporary floating Pier of the
Gaza Coast whose construction began
following President Biden's Declaration
on 7 March
2024 begins operating
today it is expected to enable the
delivery of approx appr imately
2.2 million food portions per day by the
world food
program I should add that this location
too came under Hamas fire last
month while construction was
underway further progress in relation to
Maritime rots was achieved last week
when Israel and Cyprus adopted on 8 May
technical array ments which a which aim
to facilitate the implementation of the
Cypress maridi Corridor about which
Israel has previously informed this
court this Corridor was already UTI
utilized even prior to the concluding of
the arrangements but they will further
improve its
operation is this what a hermetic
closure looks
like m Mr President members of the
Court it is not difficult to see that
Israel has been making extensive efforts
over the recent months together with
various International Partners to
increase the provision of humanitarian
assistance throughout the G
strep there have been remarkable
achievements South Africa's complete
disregard of this reality in and this
truth is as telling as it is as it is
alarming Israel extensive and ongoing
actions have been detailed in the
reports submitted by Israel to the court
most recently on 28
April they have brought about a
significant increase in the amount of
humanitarian Aid that enter into
Gaza there are con consistent with a
decision adop adopted on 4 April by
Israel ministerial committee on National
Security Affairs headed by the prime
minister of Israel and I quote to
increase the efforts to allow and
facilitate the transfer of humanitarian
aid for the civilian population in the
Gaza Street end of quote and to
establish a ministerial team to and I
quote implement the policy of the
cabinet regarding the trans of
humanitarian Aid to the Gaza Strip end
of
quote the decision records that these
steps are undertaken further to the
recommendations of security and Foreign
Affairs officials concerning the need to
continue the provisions of humanitarian
Aid to the civilian population in the
Gaza
Strip all of these steps have had a
significant impact in alleviating the
humanitarian situation and avoiding the
catastrophes which South Africa
threatened were imminent in December
then January then February then March
and then
April well the situation is constantly
changing Israel is adapting and
continues to work to improve the
humanitarian
situation and to prevent harm to
civilians and to Aid War
workers I note that as Mr Noam has said
Israel actions in this context are
currently under the judicial review of
Israel Supreme
Court these steps have been repeatedly
accompanied by clear statements from
Israel
leadership for
example Israel's prime minister
Netanyahu said on 15 my that and I quote
our policy from the start from the
beginning of the war my policy was you
have to provide the basic humanitarian
Aid that is required by international
law but in the last 6 weeks we actually
change it not only to providing basic
humanitarian aid but flooding Gaza with
humanitarian Aid end of
quote Israel's defense minister Gallant
likewise said on May 1 that and I
quote we are taking significant measures
in order to increase the volume of
humanitarian Aid into
Gaza this is essential end of
quote he added that and I quote once
more we are fighting Hamas a brutal
terrorist organization we are not
fighting the civilian in Gaza and we
will facilitate the delivery of
humanitarian Aid end of
quote in order to show a genocidal
intent that simply is not there South
Africa continues to distort other
statements in quoting the prime minister
as stating that Gaza must not constitute
a threat to Israel they omit to mention
that he was expressly speaking about
Hamas and returning the hostages it
took when quoting the minister of
defense is saying that the military
operates neighborhood by neighborhood
and will reach every location in Gaza
they neglected to say that he too
referred expressly to Hamas
in the same statement he also made plain
that the humanitarian issue is Center
the central
one while South Africa turns a blind eye
to Israel remarkable efforts they have
not gone unnoticed by
others the UN senior humanitarian
coordinator Who was appointed following
Security Council resolution to
272 said on 24 April in a briefing to
the UN Security Council that Israel has
taken a number of steps to improve Aid
delivery when asked about her contacts
with the Israeli side she said that
there is a very constructive cooperation
with her
Mission senior government officials of
various States likewise said they saw
real and demonstrable progress in the
delivery of
Aid to say as South Africa presently
does that Israel is deliberately denying
humanitarian Aid cannot be farther from
the
truth on the
contrary Israeli actions undertaken in
accordance with orders from Israel's
highest levels of government show
exactly the
opposite only
yesterday no less than
365 trucks carrying humanitarian
supplies enter into Gaza through the
various land
Crossings more than 330 of the trucks
enter through K Shalom the same Crossing
that South Africa said yesterday was
shut
down at allegations about South Africa
far no
better contrary to South Africa
allegations thousands of international
Aid workers have been entering and
exiting
Gaza the confliction mechanism were
reviewed and improved following highly
unfortunate incidents in order to
guarantee that their safety is always
maintained the these Lessons Learned too
have been detailed in Israel recent
report to the
court fuel continues to be delivered to
Gaza including this past Wednesday when
76,000 lers were transferred to the
world food
program times do not permit setting the
record straight with regard to all of
South Africa's outrageous
misrepresentations but they claim that
Israel deliberately hampering Medical
Services in Gaza or that trfa is the
last viable location for medical care
cannot be left
unanswered Israel persistently continues
to facilitate the enhancement of Medical
Services throughout the entire Gaza
Strip
in addition to the hospitals located in
Rafa efforts have been extended to
support the rehabilitation of Hospital
elsewhere in the territory this may be
seen at tab six of your
folders in fact 14 hospitals are in
operation outside
Rafa eight field hospitals are in full
operation with only two of them located
in
Rafa a field Hospital which was
established by the
icrc in the almasi area began operating
as recently as 9
May one more field hospital is due to
open later this
month and the establishment of four more
field hospitals in currently under
consideration mobile clinics
continue to operate in the alwa area
too collaboration with the host of
international
ARS including the World Health
Organization continues in order to
strengthen and expand Medical Care all
over South Africa will do well to tell
its Ally Hamas to stop exploiting
hospitals and other protected
sites as military command
centers and since we heard grave
misrepresentation yesterday about the
shifa hospital it must be made clear
that even during very intense fighting
in the shifa hospital after Kamas
reinstated the hospital compound as a
military
Hub the IDF took proactive steps Aid to
ensure continuous medical care to
patient hospitalized
there despite the intense military
activity on the
premises no patients or medical staff
were harmed during the operation by the
IDF on 22nd March
2024 the IDF broke into the hospital in
the the course of its operational
activity trucks carrying medical
equipment food and water including over
10,000 units of medicine hundreds of
painkiller packages over 100 packages of
bandage and IVs and dozen of Advanced
Medical monitoring
devices contrary to the impression that
South Africa sought to leave you with
the idea of Chief of Staff said to the
forces on that location that and I quote
we do everything not to harm patients
not to harm medical
staff in this operation not one medical
staff was harmed no patients were harmed
and many terrorists were killed and
captured end of quote
he said that a hospital is not a safe
place not safe for
terrorists South Africa even so fit to
present to the court a false translation
in its attempt to create
intent the soldiers in the video shown
yesterday were not saying to destroy but
to dismantle Rafa a clear reference to
Hamas
capabilities South Africa ignores any
such statements that show Israel true
intention it had to distort the fact to
sustain its liable of genocide in such
repugnant terms as final stages and
exterminations
zones is Israel continues to take
Extraordinary Measures in order to
minimize hard to Palestinian civilians
in
Gaza these have been described at length
to the court in the previous hearing and
in our written submission and ignored to
the same extent by South
Africa time permits only several
examples one of which is that Israel has
sent over 15 Millions text messages
informing civilians of planned IDF
activity in specific areas so that they
can avoid them it has made over 18
million pre-recorded phone calls and an
additional 100,000 individual phone
calls alerting individuals of danger in
their
vicinity over 9 million leaflets dropped
over specific areas have provided
civilian with information as to where
humanitarian Aid may be accessed and how
to live zone of
combat once
again is this our military set on total
or partial destruction of people
operates it is also the Israeli military
that has put in place
clear and definite procedure for
targeting this requires inter Alia
selection of Munitions that would
achieve the military need while
minimizing civilian harm and the conduct
for each and every strike of a
proportionality assessment in accordance
with International humanitarian
law the IDF moreover marks s sensitive
sites such as medical service and
shelters on Military operational systems
and takes additional measure to ensure
that IDF forces are aware of
them all this likewise applies in
operations in Rafa as may be seen at tab
seven of your
folders while fighting to defend Israel
it is also engaged in ensuring that
human aring Aid Contin continues to flow
in South Africa specs of extermination
zones but the source cited in its
request in support of this allegation
does not say this let alone prove
it it does reference Express statement
from the IDF chief of staff that
civilian in combat areas must not be
killed and official statement by the IDF
that the IDF does not define areas where
anyone present could be shot and a
discussion of the IDF review of EX
exceptional incidents but there are
allegations of violation of this
rule equally
unsettling is South Africa's false
allegation that the IDF uses artificial
intelligence that decides who to attack
a claim the origin of which is one press
report that is relies on anous Anonymous
sources
unfortunately South Africa did not tell
the court yesterday of Israel's official
response to the report which states
clearly that the claims are simply not
true South Africa's claims regarding IDF
attacks procedures are also
false Mr President members of the court
if South Africa seeks to point to any
change in the situation since your order
of 26th March it should have
acknowledged all these remarkable
humanitarian efforts by Israel it should
also have recognize the crimes committed
constantly by Hamas and the
circumstances the comp tell Israel to
respond to them as any state
would instead it offers Grand standing
and and
rhetoric no real
evidence that's just a transparent
attempt to relitigate the same matter
one more time and to extract more and
more from this
procedure Mr President members of the
court even if South Africa could
establish a relevant change in the
circumstances which is has not done it
has not established any change in the
situation that would justify the extreme
measure that is now
seing the measures currently in place
are entirely sufficient and no further
ons are needed
as Mr no
explained South Africa is
trying once more to drag this court down
a very dangerous
path it will have you say that a
sovereign state that is under a
persistent attack whose citizens are
held hostage in brutal conditions cannot
defend itself or its
citizens as you have consistently made
clear there is no international law to
this effect indeed it is inconceivable
that there would
be Mr President members of the
Court we must be very
clear exceeding to South Africa request
would be an front to the very idea of
the protection afforded by the
law for the court to exceed to South
Africa request is to enable hamas's
Battalion to continue to Target Israel
to attack humanitarian Crossing and to
Destin the Palestinians in Gaza to
Perpetual war is to enable Kamas to
reconstitute its forces in order to
commit the 7 October atrocities again
and again as they have vowed to do
it is to condemn the hostages to near
certain
death what would it mean for the women
still held in
captivity granting South Africa request
would be to side with a terrorist
organization which will no doubt
celebrate any such
decision it is to legitimize protect and
reward
hamas's despicable method of warfare to
enable its heinous crimes to persist
with all the consequences that might
follow Mr President members of the
Court it is one thing to require that
Israel abide by its inter International
legal obligations and protect civilian
when exercising its inherent right to
defend
itself but to deny Israel that inherent
right is a different thing
altogether it is
Unthinkable can it really be maintained
that if hostages are brutally held
captive in Rafa Israel cannot come to
their
rescue can it really be maintain that if
Kamas continues to use Gaza as a
launching pad for its indiscriminate
attack Israel cannot defend itself
against
them we respectively submit that
international law offers a clear answer
to these
questions Mr
President members of the court on this
basis and in accordance with article 60
paragraph 2 of the rules of court I now
proceed to to read Israel's final
submission the state of Israel requests
the court to reject the request for the
modification and indication of
provisional measures submitted by the
Republic of South Africa Liars liars and
that concludes is
ation about the existing humanitarian
conditions in the designated evacuation
zones in particular Al
mawasi and how it would ensure safe
passage to these
zones as well as the provision of
shelter food water and other
humanitarian Aid and assistance to all
evacuees that are and can be expected to
arrive in these zones thank you Mr
President I thank judge Nory the written
text of this question will be
communicated to the parties as soon as
possible Israel is invited to provide a
threat reply to the question no later
than tomorrow Saturday May 18 2024 at
6:00 p.m.
furthermore any comments South Africa
may wish to make in accordance with
article 72 of the rules of court on
response by Israel must be submitted no
later than Monday May 20 2024 at
noon this brings to an end the order
proceedings on the applicant's request
for the indication of additional
provisional measures and the
modification of previous provisional
measures in the case concerning
application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide in the Gaza Strip South
Africa versus
Israel it remains for me to thank the
agents Council and Advocates of the
applicant and respondant for their
statements in the course of these
hearings in accordance with usual
practice I would ask the
agents to remain at the cour disposal to
provide any additional information
the court may
require the court will render its order
on the request for the indication and
modification of provisional measures as
soon as
possible the pars will be advised in due
course as to the date on which the court
was deliver its order at a public
sitting since the court has no other
business before it today the sitting is
declared
closed for
for
e
e e